Project idea

- maybe a mining simulation game? player plays as a mine owner and each worker is simulated in regards to their social lives & relationship to the mine. 
- 2D interface? Godot?
- perhaps just simulate the material relations and disregard the social (insofar as they can be distinguished), taking account of the food workers need to survive, where the workers get that food from, the money paid by the mine/factory owners to workers & how that relates to their profits (simulate shareholder pressure?), the revenues and fixed + variable costs of the mine/factory.

- simulate in the abstract the transition between traditional & industrial modes of production from the perspective of a mine owning tycoon, reflecting the player's actions in an emergent way through interrelated systems.
^
spit balling not strict requirements



simplified

simulate in the abstract the relationship between workers and the player's mine which reflects the player's actions in an emergent way through interrelated systems.

workers working in a factory generate revenue, that revenue is given to the factory (the player) to be used as they see fit (reinvestment, wages, fixed costs) the player will be able to raise and lower wages to keep more or less of the surplus value to themselves, the amount of money available to workers in the form of wages effects their material conditions

the workers themselves will be individual nodes that act within constraints defined by their conditions in regards to the player's mine. 
There will have to be a clock to structure the logic, the game should begin with a given number of workers and a proportion of those workers will be 'born' (come of age to work in the mine) and will 'die' of natural causes (become too old to work in the mine) on a regular cycle. worker nodes all have a timer that decides when they 'die' of old age. workers could have a nutrition parameter that scales the rate their death timer drops at and decreases some specific revenue factor variable. 
workers could have an experience value that scales with time spent working & their productivity modifier.


implementation concepts:


#--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------#


NEW PHASE

sort of structured stream of consciousness:

something very systems heavy to tell the modern industrial story of kernow in a condensed and carefully arranged microcosm exploring the consequences of rapid industrialisation on kernowyon society & its landscape

Mine & village simulation loosely modelled on Geevor & St Just but presented as a sort of platonic ideal 'universal kernowyon coastal mining village' a la how the fictional village of Tassing is presented in the Obsidian title Pentiment

The mine is under control of the player while the village is autonomous and makes what decisions it can
the village will be a practical and diagetic form of feedback to the player, its state reflecting the choices and knock on effects of the player's actions over the course of the game

at this stage im thinking maybe a weekly cycle for the main gameplay loop, monday -> saturday will be one phase of continuous gameplay characterised by daily sub-loops perhaps with pauses for events and the game will pause on sunday for
a retrospective & upgrade/advanced action menu.
alternately for a longer form experience a monthly or even quarterly cycle could be options.

Or maybe a weekly cycle system to preserve that small scale operational detail with a time skip where the mine owner travels & returns for whatever reason. 
alternately have that be the premise for the epilogue presenting the long term knock on effects of the short-term game, might be more practical for a 1st attempt.

also seeing that the period of time that the player/tycoon was heading the mine and making decisions was so short yet had such an impact on the town could be thematically strong.
the intrusion of this system of alien capitalist logic had through its transformative & accelerationist nature had a disproportionate developmental influence over the social & economic order that existed before
and despite taking place during a very short period of the capitalist(players) life had complete domination over the lives of the people who worked to make them wealthy. 
it can present the danger of complete sublimation to logical control to the player
to push the framework they approached the implicitly moral systems economic choices of the first phase through the sausage grinder of historical materialism.


having two phases of the game before and after this skip could be even stronger, contrasting an earlier transitory phase of capital's metamorphosis to a later one & all the differences that brings as
well as smaller ripples from the player's actions panning out from the first phase, but that mutliplies the work involved substantially, one thing at a time.


need to do some reading & talk to some old people


#--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------#


4/7/26 - 8/7/26 (this is where i started keeping dates, the earlier sections are a few months older)
NEWER PHASE
post Geevor visit

my main goal here is to try and nail down some mechanical concepts and a narrative framing for the first phase/v1.0 of the project

-------- themes --------

the core focus of the game will be on the relation between a sort of fictional, platonic ideal 'universal coastal cornish mining village' during the birth of capitalist modernity.
I want to explore the kind of social transformation driven by the ceaselessly accelerating logic of techno-capital by focussing intensely on one of its principle birthplaces.
I want to put the player in the position of a figure that personifies the social-historical-political-economic 'engine' that directed this transformation, the mine manager.
This is because the mine manager sits at a sort of social crossroads between the macro structure of international finance and the state, as well as the micro structure of the town and mine, and he must navigate that conflict of interest with regard to the responsibility vested in him, both by the community that serves him and the financial structures that he serves.

-------- narrative --------

the mine will be modelled loosely on the history of Geevor/North Levant but transposed ~40-50 years backwards and blended with the social histories of other towns in the west penwith & lizard peninsulas.
Geevor was built in the 1910s almost upon the ruins of the old north levant mine which operated from 1851 - 1891
the ruins of old north levant are visible from geevor and create a really interesting sort of gradient from old to new mining infrastructure
i want to depict a similar gradient of history but with an 18th century mine in place of old levant then have the mine the player manages be a mid 19th century revival of the same site
this lets me cram some extra historical content into the game as well as providing a natural framing device.

the narrative will start with the player choosing one of three(?) backgrounds, each managerial positions in different British industries as well as a simple character creation system allowing players to enter a name and choose an appearence preset (sort of like sunless skies?).
These backgrounds will represent different kinds of commerce characteristic of britain's rapidly industrialising economy, and will bring with them unique choices & flavour text in the early parts of the game 
(e.g. a maritime background might give additional shipping choices from their time at sea, or a factory background might have contacts capable of acquiring better or cheaper industrial equipment, etc.)

the player character will be a 19th century 'corporate climber' who has been tasked by the investment firm/bank to oversee the development of the Cornish Mine after their acquisition of the site.
This provides a natural framing to introduce the player character to various mining concepts as they're a sort of fish out of water being shown the ropes from a very top-down perspective.
there will be a cast of archetypal characters that are conversed with and personify different elements of the game's social world. 
For instance important figures in the town like the parish priest, head(s) of town council, and figures representing the different 'industries' of the town like fishing and metalworking will be characters the player can interact with
there will also be 'foreman' type figures within the social structure of the mine itself which will get similar character treatment.

-------- gameplay --------

structurally the game will be divided into three orders of cycles and take place over a set time (a year?)
There will be monthly, weekly, and daily cycles. A day should take something like <5 minutes. there will be active pause and time controls a la paradox grand strat games (or maybe stop during daily segments?)
the weekly cycle will be the principle decision making point.
to begin, work days will include monday -> saturday, sunday is a day of rest for the workers and maintenance/socialising/decision making for the mine manager

The daily cycle itself is currently quite subject to change. the working concept is dividing each day into 5 segments, two working shifts with mossel (lunch) inbetween, capped by shift start/end segments

the main kind of mining gameplay will be directing the stoping of existing shafts and developing of new shafts
the mining process will essentially be a series of timers associated with different actions that are modified by manifold conditions. for the player this timer will be represented as a fancy looking animation that will 
change with some of the associated conditions.

-------- visual concepts --------

In my minds eye the mining village is sort of like a hybrid between Pendeen, Newlyn, and the various tiny fishing villages that exist all around the lizard. 
a clifftop mine next to a village/small town that snakes down a river valley into a small cove from the top of the cliff, surrounded by hilly pasture and hardy farmland.

the work done by studio Ghibli on the movie Laputa could be a rich source to draw from, much of the architecture and landscapes in that film draw from a field trip the animation team did to Wales in the 80s 
As much of the welsh mining industry shares substantial lineage with Cornish mining in terms of technologies and infrastructure, not to mention the celtic connection it should be fertile ground for inspiration.

-------- closing thoughts --------

Calling it here for this phase, i have enough of a framework to begin some preliminary programming & a strong basis to pursue further research
The next section of this document will be a research report on Cornish mining with a particular eye for how it could be gamified. much of the actual mechanical functionality is still floating around my head in a sort of superposition.
I need to pin down a concrete scope for the first actual development phase to understand my technical requirements.

the two key possibilities in my mind are creating a museum game, ie something they can stick on a screen in a heritage site somewhere as an educational tool, with a core focus on exploring the sort of immediate mechanical and social processes of mining. and creating a fully fledged narrative focussed game. there's some conflict in these goals but i can see the former flowing pretty naturally into the latter, especially if the former is made as a kind of vertical slice or prototype.




